==================
BETACODE CONVERTER
==================

Abstract
--------

<<<<<<< HEAD
The original function of the program is to convert Greek betacode in the Latin alphabet into polytonic Greek characters, with the diacritical symbols incorporated into their appropriate
=======
The original function of the program is to convert Greek betacode in the Latin alphabet into polytonic Greek characters, with the dicritical symbols incorporated into their appropriate
>>>>>>> 8fafa7791f454b9b2b5097688a4c882f6dbc9003
unicode characters. 

::


The program is meant to provide the same sort of functionality as typegreek.com, but it accomplishes the task in a very different way.

Other versions of this kind of program essentially map the character macros to their unicode targets. A few examples of this kind of approach are provided for reference in
the ``/comparisons`` folder of this repository. This version of the program uses a strategy pattern to define the various ways that characters can be combined into complex
symbols, then uses those strategies to generate symbol tokens from legal combinations. It is not necessary to account for all possible variants in the order of constituent
characters, since one particular strategy has been defined to allow for symbols to be constructed from character elements in any order. However, if a sequence of characters 
must follow a certain order, another strategy has been defined to enforce specific sequences. 

For instance, an unordered sequence can be constructed by supplying a list of categories of characters. Each category is allowed to have one member in the final symbol, but
may also have none. The symbol will be compounded until a) a character is encountered that does not belong to any of the given categories, or b) a character is encountered
for a category for which a valid character has already been added to the symbol. In the context of polytonic Greek, this allows the program to add breathing marks, accents, 
diareses, iotas subscript, macrons, and brevia to a given vowel character irrespective of the order in which they come.

::

    a(/| = a|(/ = a/(| = a(|/ = a|/( = a/|(  ->  ᾃ


Another feature of the program is that the tokens generated by the strategies are defined so as to correct any potential conflicts between characters before attempting to render the
combination. The program prioritises accent and breathing marks over subscripts and diaereses, while macrons and brevia have the lowest priority. Characters that conflict with another
character of a higher priority, or which conflict with the basic vowel type, will be suppressed so that they are not considered in the final rendering. 

::

    a(/|+  ->  ᾃ
    (The diaeresis symbol "+" was ignored because it is incompatible with alpha)

    i(/|+  ->  ἵ
    (The diaresis symbol "+" was ignored because it is incompatible with rough breathing. The subscript symbol "|" was ignored because it is incompatible with iota.)

The rendering, in turn, does not depend on a map of legal combinations and final symbols like the examples in the ``/comparisons`` folder. Instead, it tries to map
the meanings of the characters present in the symbol to columns and rows in the unicode table for Extended Greek characters. The table is not wholly uniform in its organization,
so some edge cases must be dealt with on their own, but most symbols have predictable places in the table based on their composite members.

The program is more complex than it needs to be in order to accomplish the desired goal. The design was constructed so as to be as extendable as possible, and consequently it is
now very easy to write new strategies to accommodate even further character sets. A more distant goal of the program might attempt to introduce its own character rendering engine, 
so that the user can easily type the strange symbols of an alien or fantasy con-lang alphabet.